[WHOOSH]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>THERESA BULLARD: My
journey through physics
has been an interesting one.
That's what put me on a new
path to bridge the science
and spirituality
through sacred geometry,
numerology, Tarot, astrology.
Now, I've learned all of these
systems as different ways
for communicating
with the universe.
>>GEORGE NOORY: You can
really change your life
if you tap into this.
>>BULLARD: Then there's 22
archetypes or 22 pathways that
are these life lessons and
transformations that we're
supposed to go through.
It's not just about
having the information.
It's about directly
experiencing it
so that I can create the
life I really want to live.
>>NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Dr. Theresa Bullard is with
us, a PhD, a physicist.
Hosts a great program on Gaia
called "Mystery Teachings,"
and is an international
spiritual teacher
with the Modern Mystery School.
Now she merges science,
ancient wisdom,
powerful, time-tested techniques
for harnessing consciousness,
which is pretty interesting
for a physicist, Theresa.
Welcome to the program.
>>BULLARD: Thank you, George.
It's a pleasure to be here.
>>NOORY: Tell me about
your physicist background.
How did that all happen for you?
>>BULLARD: A lot
of it was, I think,
the universe guiding
me into physics.
But I started out
wondering, what
was I going to do as
I got into college
and was going for my degrees?
What was I going to major in?
And I had been having--
I was on a tour to try
and explore some colleges.
And then we went through
Sedona, and my mom and I
were on this road trip.
And we had a really
magical time in Sedona
just with the vortexes.
>>NOORY: It's a
magical area too.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Very beautiful.
And it was just very elevating.
And so then we were driving
through the desert at night.
I was looking out at
the stars at night
with no light pollution, and you
could just see the whole Milky
Way stretching across.
>>NOORY: Shooting stars.
Choo!
>>BULLARD: Yeah, I might
have seen a shooting star
that night.
And I just remember thinking,
gosh, what is out there?
I want to know what's out there.
There's got to be so
much more going on
in this universe than
our mundane little lives
here on Earth.
So I want to know
what's out there.
And that was the
moment that I thought,
oh, that's what I will study
is astronomy and astrophysics.
And so then that led me into
getting first my bachelor's
in physics.
And then when I was in
the physics studies,
I really got excited by
high-energy physics, particle
physics, astrophysics, and
went into then graduate school
to explore some of those topics.
And my journey through physics
has been an interesting one.
And ultimately, I ended up
doing my dissertation work
in crystal chemistry,
material science, and origin
of life theories.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Very, very eclectic--
>>NOORY: You seem to
merge a lot of that
into your television show here
on Gaia, "Mystery Teachings."
So you've taken that
love and that passion,
and you've turned
it into that too.
>>BULLARD: Yeah,
you know, I always
found that I was
one who really liked
to explore a broad
range of topics
and see how the different pieces
of the puzzles fit together,
even when they were
disparate fields,
different DNA versus quantum
physics versus our psychology.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BULLARD: And yet,
I was often one
of those people who
was just-- my mind was
really good at putting those
puzzle pieces together.
So most physicists
tend to be very
into the minutia
and the details,
and they get really deep into
their expertise in one area.
But I was one of
those people who's
more learning different subjects
and putting them together.
>>NOORY: Would you have loved
to have met Albert Einstein?
>>BULLARD: Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: What would
you have asked him?
If he were on "Mystery
Teachings," you're
interviewing him, what
would you have asked him?
>>BULLARD: I would
have asked him
what he feels is the most
important aspect to life.
And I think I know what he would
have answered, because he often
talked about it, which was
creativity, to not just get so
stuck in the left brain
and to allow the spirit
to explore through the
creative dimensions as well
and have that balance
between the two.
>>NOORY: Have you
been able to merge
science and the
spiritual aspect of life?
>>BULLARD: That has been
one of my lifelong goals
is to find the ways to merge
the two, because I feel
that the science
really gives us a very
grounded, rational
approach to the world
and trying to
understand how things
work from first principles,
but it lacks the deeper meaning
and purpose to it all.
Yes, we can apply those
technologies towards--
the science towards the
technology and advancing
from that perspective.
But what's the deeper purpose
when it comes to our lives
and how it makes our lives
really better or more
meaningful?
So I feel that the
spirit and that pursuit
of what is within us and what
is the purpose of our lives
and the meaning for why we're
here, I feel like that for me
personally was such a big
piece, a key to bringing
a sense of balance
and joy and direction
to why I was studying
what I was studying.
So bringing the two
together has been the key.
>>NOORY: That's your goal.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You could
tell on your program
that you're looking
for that answer.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Trying to merge.
As a matter of fact,
on your first season
of "Mystery
Teachings," you jumped
into a story about how
22 different aspects
of our personal selves are
living within ourselves.
>>BULLARD: How does this
work from the metaphysical
perspective then?
Well, the science of
universal Kabbalah
limits the number of
parallel realities
we might be in based on the
pattern of the tree of life.
Rather than a potentially
infinite number,
as in the many worlds
interpretation,
Kabbalah organizes them into 22
pathways on the tree of life.
These 22 pathways define
the archetypes of life
or the ways of living life.
Have you ever wished there could
be two or more versions of you
to accomplish all you
want to do in life,
or that you could have
become somebody different?
Well, Kabbalah says we have
22 distinct parallel realities
or versions of ourself
in this physical world.
They are 22 different
aspects of our total self,
each one being very
different and living out
its own physical life.
In each one of them, the
brain and the nervous system
are programmed
differently, giving us
22 unique perspectives
and experiences of life
and how things are.
All together, they
cover everything
we need to learn in
this physical life.
>>NOORY: Theresa, I'm a Gemini.
I've got two within me.
>>BULLARD: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: You're
talking about 22.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Well, it's actually
22 parallel selves.
So more like if you think from
our higher self, our spirit
self, that part of us is so vast
that it couldn't necessarily
be all captured within
one aspect or one
expression of the self.
So it has 22 different
archetypal selves
incarnated simultaneously.
Maybe not in this timeline
that we experience.
It could be throughout
multiple timelines.
>>NOORY: How did they get
22 instead of 23 or 21?
>>BULLARD: Well, that's where
we kind of are relating it
to the tree of life and
Kabbalah and the tree of life
being this universal template.
It's the pattern.
And within-- it they actually
talk about 32 paths of wisdom.
So there's 10 spheres, which are
10 aspects of our total self.
But then there's 22
archetypes or 22 pathways
that are these sort
of experiences of life
or these life lessons and
transformations that we're
supposed to go through.
So those archetypes
kind of oversee
each of those different
22 parallel lives.
>>NOORY: How do people pick
up on these parallel lives
that they have?
How do they learn
these 22 aspects?
>>BULLARD: Some people
never do, but if they
are on a path of really
trying to know thyself,
to awaken more of
their full potential
and their consciousness
to realize that we're
more than just
this little life--
most people are living their
lives with the blinders on,
and they're only looking at
what's right in front of them.
But as they start to realize
that I'm more than just
one thing and I can be the
artist, I can be the scientist,
I can be the athlete, I
can be the entertainer,
I can be all of these
things in one life,
now they're starting to
wear multiple characters
or working with the
different archetypes of life.
And that broadens their
perception of who they are.
And it also starts tapping them
into those parallel dimensions
or parallel aspects
of their life.
>>NOORY: Theresa, do you find
that most successful people
like Jeff Bezos, Arnold
Schwarzenegger tap into this?
>>BULLARD: Some of them have.
I think some of them have
just gotten really good
in one archetype, you know?
You have your Jeff Bezos
or your Zuckerberg,
who they're really
good at innovating
or they're really good at
being the leader, right?
Being the emperor
kind of energy.
So they can--
>>NOORY: Surrounding
themselves with good people
to do the work.
>>BULLARD: And then
they surround themselves
with the other archetypes
who do those work.
So I think it's
actually people who
are more on a journey of
expanding their sense of self,
their consciousness.
Not just peak performance
or just achieving
material success, for example.
But really awakening
consciousness
to a higher, more expanded
version of the self.
So when we're on
a spiritual path
and we start to
study the archetypes,
I think we have to study those
archetypes to even become
aware of those
aspects of the self.
So people start to, for example,
just becoming more aware
of astrology.
That is one way to
study the archetypes.
Kabbalah gives us another
way to study the archetypes.
The Tarot gives us another way.
Jungian analysis and
studying the archetypes
of movies and books
and so forth, those
are all ways to start becoming
aware of those archetypes.
I think they really have
to get keyed in on that
as a first step.
And then they have to recognize,
how is this a part of me?
And how is this
showing up in my life?
Maybe my best friend,
maybe that person
plays a certain role in my life.
And you know, this
mentor over here
plays another role that
I had, and they wear
different archetypes for me.
But how am I also a reflection
of them and them a reflection
of me?
So we have to really start to
perceive life and ourselves
and the people in our
lives in different ways
from a much higher perspective.
>>NOORY: It's not difficult
to do that once you
learn the techniques, is it?
>>BULLARD: It's not difficult,
but it takes awareness, right?
>>NOORY: Yes.
You have to know about it.
>>BULLARD: You have
to know about it,
but you also have to
pay attention to it.
You have to care.
And a lot of people
get too wrapped up
in just the mundane
materiality of life
that they're not
paying attention
to those higher, more subtle
aspects that are influencing us
all the time, but
we're maybe just
getting caught up in
the drama of the details
versus the bigger archetypal
themes that are happening.
So it's about awareness.
It's a key, awareness.
And then proper knowledge.
But also living it,
embodying it, really
working with tools that help
you to awaken on a daily basis
to the presence of
these archetypes
or these symbols, these
universal principles that
are at play in our
life all the time.
>>NOORY: I read a book,
small little red book
called "The Magic of
Believing" by Claude Bristol.
An incredible book,
Theresa, where it just
basically points
out these aspects
without knowing about it.
But it's very pointed that you
can really change your life
if you tap into this.
>>BULLARD: You can.
Yeah.
And when you become
aware of them, just
by your awareness
of their presence,
it's like it's opening
up the door for them
to come more and
work with you more.
So by our awareness, we are
opening up that possibility
and almost invoking that
energy into our life
so that it becomes
alive in our life.
And as we directly experience
it, it comes to life for us,
then we know it, you know?
It's not just about
having the information.
It's about directly experiencing
it and living it in your life,
and then you know it.
>>NOORY: And learning it.
"Great Minds" is a Gaia
program by Jonathan Young,
and he talks about his journey.
Let's watch this.
>>BULLARD: OK.
>>JONATHAN YOUNG:
Joseph Campbell
had a best-selling
book in 1949 called
"The Hero with a
Thousand Faces."
That is to say, stories
are similar over time
and in different cultures.
And there is one main
story, the monomyth,
that is told again and again.
It's essentially a
journey story, a quest.
When you diagram
the hero's journey,
it's customarily
depicted as a circle.
You start at the top.
A calling takes you
away from the ordinary,
and there is a descent.
You cross a threshold into a
place you have not been before.
There are companions, allies,
mentors, and opponents.
There are ordeals.
There is a good
deal of suffering.
At the bottom, the nadir,
the dark night of the soul,
it gets really hard.
There is a death and
rebirth experience.
The redemption is the rising up
the other side of the circle,
and there are several lessons
to be learned on the way back.
Finally, a return
threshold crossing
when you re-enter
the place you left,
but you are changed forever.
>>NOORY: What did he just say?
>>BULLARD: [LAUGHS] He's
talking about something
called the hero's journey.
So the hero's journey is one
of those archetypal themes
or universal themes
that can play out
in the process of
transformation,
especially the
transformation of the self.
So we start off sort
of naive, maybe excited
for the adventure ahead.
And we start to
prepare ourselves.
We do our basic learning.
We get our basic
skills together.
And then we venture off.
We kind of leave home
off on this adventure
of life, whatever that is.
And through that adventure,
you start to have challenges.
You start to meet adversaries.
You meet teachers.
You meet different
characters along the way who
are all a part of that journey.
Whether they're an adversary
or a teacher or a friend,
they're all there to teach
us something, you know?
They're there to
help us discover
the resources that are within.
And then in the real
testing of the hero
or the person who's on this
journey of transformation,
they have to meet a real
dark place within themselves
and really not run away
from the challenge,
not let their fears
paralyze them,
but move forward with
courage to continue
through those darker
or challenging times,
because those are the times
that test us the most,
but they're also the times
that really reveal to us
our greatest strengths.
So that time is a place
where we often call
it the dark night of the soul.
It's a letting go of the
old, the false identities
of the self, the personality
that is just a mask.
It's not the truth
of who we are.
And really digging
in to discover
the deeper essence
of who we are that
is more a part of our
essential self, our core.
And then as we
emerge out of that,
we start to come into greater
and greater levels of light,
of joy again, of breakthroughs,
and sense of accomplishment
and so forth until we
complete the journey
and achieve the goal, which
is really the transformation
of the self.
And it's a cycle.
It's a cyclic process.
>>NOORY: Did you
ever think when you
were getting your degree
in physics that you'd
be dealing with this?
>>BULLARD: Not originally, no.
At first I just thought,
I'm just on a path
to get a career in
some field that will
keep my interest for my life.
And I wanted to go as
far with my education
as I needed to go so that I
never hit that glass ceiling
or that kind of, that's as
far as you're going to go.
I wanted to be able to go as
far as wherever my interest took
me.
And then as I got
into graduate school,
I realized it wasn't what I
thought it was going to be.
It didn't talk about meaning.
It didn't talk about the deeper
aspects of what I was learning.
It was just like,
solve the equations.
Pass your tests.
Do your homework.
Do your research.
And don't ask questions
about meaning or philosophy
or any of that.
And so I found myself
really out of balance
after about a year of that.
>>NOORY: They don't
teach this in school.
>>BULLARD: No, no.
I wish they did.
Maybe they're starting to teach
more interesting things now
because they're starting
to open up and into more
interdisciplinary research
than when I was there.
But yeah, I realized that the
search of the self and what
brings us meaning
and purpose was
equally important to gaining the
knowledge and the information
that could be applied
in a material way.
It was like, well,
what about the soul?
What about who am I, and
what do I like to do?
And how am I going to really
bring my gifts into the world?
And then how can I
do that in a way that
actually leaves some kind of
meaningful impact or legacy?
And so that's what really
put me on a new path
to finding ways to
bridge the science
and spirituality, but not
just at a philosophical level.
I wanted to really make it
practical and applicable
to life where we could really
see the results and the impact
that it makes in our life.
And that's what led
me into discovering
my way onto the Mystery School
path and deeper ancient wisdom
teachings.
Not just new agey stuff,
but deeper, really grounded,
really practical
and applied approach
that does draw from
ancient science--
hermetics, alchemy,
sacred geometry,
divine mathematics--
you know, it
draws from those
ancient sciences,
but then also merges it
with the modern science.
And yet, it also has this
spiritual component to it.
>>NOORY: Well, the fact that
the ancients tapped into this
tells you a lot about what
they believed in those days,
doesn't it?
Remarkable.
>>BULLARD: They were.
They had really amazing
visions and insights
into how the universe works.
And they needed to use
a metaphorical language
to try and put their
visions into a context
that they could express
and understand at that time
to teach it to others.
But if you look at just
the essence of what
they were teaching, it's amazing
how much the ancient wisdom
teachings parallel what modern
science is discovering today.
So we have a new metaphorical
language today, which
is the language of science.
And it might be more
applied and mathematical,
but we can take these ancient
principles and ancient wisdom
teachings and we can take
it with modern science
and show how they parallel,
which is a big part of what
I do in "Mystery Teachings."
>>NOORY: What are archetypes?
>>BULLARD: Archetypes are a
pattern of creation, maybe
a symbol.
We could say it's a
symbol, but it's actually
got its own life, its own
being in these higher--
>>NOORY: It's own personality?
>>BULLARD: Personality.
We can maybe say personality,
but it's characteristics,
right?
It has its character.
And it's sort of a--
Carl Jung called it a certain
motif or pattern whereby
in every book, every movie,
every story that we've ever
told, as well as
in our own lives,
these archetypes show up
again and again and again.
There's certain limited--
>>NOORY: There's
patterns to this.
>>BULLARD: There's patterns.
And those can be characters like
the maiden, the hero, the king,
the queen, the villain.
Those can be characters.
>>NOORY: Sounds
like Tarot cards.
>>BULLARD: Yes.
And it could also
be live lessons.
So the journey of the hero, life
and death, good versus evil.
These are also
themes that show up.
But yes, the Tarot
are one way in which
we can capture the 22 major
archetypes that influence us
as humans.
>>NOORY: On your program,
your latest season
of "Mystery Teachings," you
discuss the Tree of Life
in more detail.
What exactly is the Tree
of Life in your opinion?
>>BULLARD: The Tree of Life
is a glyph, a pattern, again,
of creation that relates to
the Kabbalistic tradition.
But it's really this--
it's a sacred geometry that
our own DNA is built around.
You could lay out
crystals according
to that same geometry.
Our DNA, which is a liquid
crystal, our own body.
They say it's the
pattern of creation,
and it can apply at many
different levels and kind
of holographically from the
cosmic into the microcosmic.
So we use it as
a tool for really
helping us understand
many different aspects
of the universe and ourselves.
>>NOORY: How does the
Tarot relate to this?
>>BULLARD: So Tarot
is not Kabbalistic,
but because the tree of
life is a universal template
for organizing information
from physics all the way down
to psychology and divinity,
we can use this Tree of Life
as a filing system.
And you kind of map all
these different systems--
we call them systems
of correspondence--
onto the Tree of Life.
So the 22 Major
Arcana of the Tarot
can be associated with the 22
pathways of the Tree of Life.
The Minor Arcana,
the one through 10
or the ace through 10 can
be related to the spheres
on the Tree of Life.
And then you have some
suit cards as well,
which relate to
the four elements.
So we can map this
system of Tarot,
which goes all the way
back to ancient Egypt.
And we can map it
onto the tree of life
so we can show the
correlations between them.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look how
you illustrate it even more.
>>BULLARD: Now, why 22?
Well, it's based on the
structure of the Tree of Life.
There are 10
Sephiroth on the Tree
of Life, and 22 paths that
connect those together.
The spheres represent
objective states
of being while the
pathways represent
the subjective experience
of traveling between them.
And they're often referred
to as states of becoming.
These 22 pathways basically
define the key lessons
and transformations that we're
meant to go through in life.
Each path invokes an energy
that brings movement,
and it shifts us from one
state of being to another.
In essence, they catalyze
spiritual and personal alchemy.
Is there anything that can
help us better understand
what these archetypes are?
Fortunately, yes.
Now while there's many
layers to these archetypes,
one tool that we
can use that makes
them more relatable
to our physical lives
is the Major Arcana
of the Tarot.
Now, the term "arcana" comes
from the Latin "arcanum,"
which basically means
a mystery or a secret.
But before we go
much further, let
me first clarify that Tarot
does not come from Kabbalah,
but it can be related,
because the Tree of Life
is a universal
template for organizing
information about our lives
and the universe as a whole.
And the Major Arcana do
relate to the 22 archetypes
of our physical
life experiences,
so they can be mapped onto the
Tree of Life and its 22 paths.
These correlations of the
archetypes to the paths
were first made by a French
initiate, Eliphas Levi,
over 100 years ago.
And then he was followed by
other initiates of the Western
Mystery School tradition.
>>NOORY: These mystery schools
are fascinating, aren't they?
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
I think so too.
>>NOORY: I mean, how does
he develop things like that?
>>BULLARD: Well,
first they would
study the various mysteries.
And you know, they were
like scientists to me.
They were researchers.
They really dug
into the old texts.
They also practiced.
They applied the tools
and the teachings.
You know, they lived it, right?
But they were scholarly as well.
So they really researched all
these different traditions,
the different knowledge,
the wisdom teachings,
and then they started
to see the correlations.
And Kabbalah in particular
in the Western Mystery School
tradition has become
a central framework
for helping understand
and put context or see
the relationships between all
these other kind of aspects
of the Mystery teachings.
And so it became this
framework to start
organizing all of this
information into one
more cohesive whole,
which is one of the things
I loved about it,
because it helps
to see the connections that
you might not ordinarily
see otherwise.
>>NOORY: The Tarot card
readers, the people
who have the deck of cards
and pull, are they tuned in?
Do they know what they're doing?
>>BULLARD: Well, I
think just by the fact
that they're working
with the Tarot,
they are developing relationship
with these archetypes.
But I think it also depends
on which deck they use,
because there are going to be
slightly different depictions
in every deck, and so forth.
But the way that we work
with the Tarot in the Mystery
tradition is first and
foremost to use them as windows
or like a symbolic
visual representation
of the archetypes in a way
to start connecting with them
from our consciousness and
awareness into that energy
symbolically.
So we're not using
them initially so much
for divination.
We're using them for
helping them become windows
into the self and those
aspects of ourselves.
And then down the
line, once you've
developed that
relationship with them
at a very personal
level, then if you wanted
to use them to gain insight into
synchronicities, for example,
or for what people might--
>>NOORY: Which is
what the Tarot card
readers are doing nowadays.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
Yeah.
But they're not
necessarily always
studying the deeper
mysteries of the Tarot
before they're
starting to learn how
to use Tarot for divination.
So I would reverse that process.
I would learn the deeper
mysteries of the Tarot
first and then use them for
divination, because then you
really understand deeper
messages and deeper
teachings that are there,
contained within it.
The Tarot is like
a book of wisdom,
but it's depicted in visual
format versus language.
>>NOORY: Have you had a Tarot
card reading done on yourself?
>>BULLARD: Sure.
>>NOORY: Is it fascinating?
>>BULLARD: You know, it is.
It's one way that we can
tap into synchronicity
and the universe communicating
to us through symbols.
I also like numerology.
I like astrology.
You know, they're
all different windows
into the self and windows
into the different themes
or energies that are
at play in our lives,
so I think they're
very helpful tools.
>>NOORY: Are they predictive?
>>BULLARD: They
can be predictive,
but it's more like
they're just showing you
influences that are happening.
We don't necessarily know how
those influences are exactly
going to manifest themselves,
because that has a lot
to do with human choice, right?
So for us in the
Mystery tradition,
if anyone were to
go to a reader,
whether it's a psychic
reader, a Tarot reader,
it doesn't matter--
>>NOORY: Numerologist, whatever.
>>BULLARD: Any kind.
That reader should
only be saying,
these are the influences
I see, but you always
have a choice about what
you want to do with this.
So what do you want
to do with this?
It's not like,
this is the reading
and this is going
to happen this way.
It's more like this is the
influence available right now.
This is the message
that's coming through.
What do you choose to
do about it, right?
So we're always empowered
to make a choice about what
we do with the
information we're given,
and that's really
important, I think.
>>NOORY: I want to look at the
Tarot card-- the Wheel of Life.
And you tell us what we're
looking at here, Theresa.
>>BULLARD: OK.
>>NOORY: Explain that.
>>BULLARD: Yeah.
So this Wheel of Fortune
really explains in a large part
the whole of the
journey of the hero.
So if you look at the top,
you see a sphinx at the top.
And the sphinx is kind
of like the guardian.
It represents the spirit.
It's got both the human head
but also the animal body,
but it's got a sword.
It's got an Egyptian
kind of headdress on.
So it represents a deity.
>>NOORY: And a long tail.
>>BULLARD: And a
long tail, yeah.
But it kind of represents this
union of heaven and Earth,
right?
And it's sort of this
transformed being.
But then you come down
the left-hand side
and you see the serpent, which
is the search for knowledge.
It's also the search of
the life force energy,
descending into matter.
And so it's in this
descent process,
which usually the hero's
journey starts off
with the descent into the
world, into physicality.
And then you see--
they call it the hermanubis.
It's like a jackal-headed,
human kind of character.
And he's just
rounding the corner
and starting the ascent back
up towards the spiritual realm.
So he's not quite on
the full ascent yet,
but he's rounding the corner.
And this represents humans
on their ascension journey
to higher consciousness.
And then you have what we
call the four holy living
creatures around.
They represent the
four fixed signs
of the zodiac, of Leo,
Taurus, Aquarius, and Scorpio.
And they represent the four
elements, the four watchtowers.
So they're these energies that
kind of anchor this experience
we're having.
And then in the center of the
wheel, it's like a portal.
You have--
>>NOORY: A doorway?
>>BULLARD: A doorway, yeah.
It's a rotation.
It's a cycle.
And as you go around
each cycle, it's
like you're spiraling
up to another level
and another level.
And it spells Tarot.
It also spells
roda, ator, Tarot.
So it's kind of
a clue, you know?
There's a secret mystery
hidden within it.
You see symbols of
alchemy inside of it.
So this one card represents
the entire journey
of the hero's journey, the
cycle of transformation.
So there's a lot
going on in there.
And it's very much
about the alchemy that
happens through that
journey, the alchemy
of personal transformation,
separating out
the essentials of
who we are, trying
to extract the
true essence of who
we are from the core
self versus what
happens on the outer realm.
So it's about ultimately
trying to get into the center.
>>NOORY: That's just
one of how many cards?
>>BULLARD: 22 of
the Major Arcana.
And this is the 10th one,
which is kind of a turning
point in the whole journey.
So we start off as
the fool, as a sort
of naive, exuberant spirit,
ready to go off on adventure.
And then the fool goes
through this descent
until it comes to
this card, the Wheel.
And the Wheel of Fortune is
sort of like the twist of fate.
There's the fates that just sort
of make it an unexpected change
in your life, and then that sets
you on the rest of the journey.
>>NOORY: We've got a clip of
you discussing this journey
and this transformation.
>>BULLARD: Returning to
Kabbalah for a moment,
recall that we said that the 22
Major Arcana can be mapped out
onto the 22 paths
of the Tree of Life.
Well, each of these paths is
really more about the 22 Hebrew
letters, which are said to be
an ancient language of light
and creation.
Now in addition to these
letters being associated
with the Tree of Life,
in the Sefer Yetzirah
or the Book of
Formation, they're
also described as being
arranged on a sphere.
And in this circular format,
when every letter is then
connected to every
other letter, it
forms a beautiful mandala
known as the 231 gates.
When we then match the Tarot
keys with their Hebrew letters
around this sphere, we can see
that it becomes like a wheel.
Now in this arrangement,
the key zero or the fool
is placed at the top of
the wheel with aleph.
Keys one through 10 then
descend down on the last side.
Between key 10, the wheel,
and key 11, justice,
is what we call a turning
point at the bottom.
And then keys 12 through 21
ascend up on the right side.
As this wheel spins, it goes
through one complete cycle
of the alchemical process.
Now in alchemy, the number
seven is also really important.
There's seven stages in the
transformational process, which
is something that we explored
in season three of "Mystery
Teachings."
In ancient Egyptian
mythology, there
were also seven stages
of the soul's journey
through the afterlife.
And in hermetic
philosophy, there's
seven hermetic principles.
So this number seven shows
up in many significant ways.
We can also divide the Tarot
keys into groups of seven.
When we do this,
the fool or key zero
is put into its own
category, because this
represents us embarking
on the spiritual journey.
Then keys one through seven, the
magician through the chariot,
relate to the stages of
preparation for the great work.
These form the early lessons
of this journey that teach us
about the archetypal
principles as powers
within our own consciousness.
Then keys eight through 14,
strength through temperance,
connect to the
experiences of life
that take us through the
first four stages of alchemy,
which are calcination,
disillusion, separation,
and conjunction.
And then finally,
keys 15 through 21,
which are the devil
through the world card,
these represent the final
three stages of alchemy
that refine our soul and bring
us more spiritual attainment.
And those alchemical stages
relate to fermentation,
distillation, and coagulation.
We'll explore each
of these as we
go through the journey of this
season's "Mystery Teachings."
>>NOORY: Theresa,
of these 22 cards,
is there one more
important than the other?
>>BULLARD: I don't know
about one more important.
I think they all have a
really important piece--
>>NOORY: They're like a puzzle?
>>BULLARD: They are.
They're a sequence, you know?
They're like stepping
stones through a sequence.
But you can in a way capture
the whole journey in four cards,
right?
So if we started with
the fool, that's us.
And that represents us all
the way through the journey.
Then we had the wheel
which we were talking
about a moment ago, and that
really kind of represents
the process, the cyclic
journey of transformation
that we're going through.
And then we had
the judgment card,
which was right next to it.
It's number 11.
And that represents
decisions, right?
And choices that we have
to make and discernment
that we have to have in
this journey, and the fact
that we have to learn to
achieve a balance in how
those choices are leading
to different results.
And then the culmination
of the journey
is in the wheel card, which
is the last, the 22nd one
or the-- yeah.
Zero to 21.
So it's key number 21, but
it's the 22nd card, the very
last of the Major Arcana.
And the world represents
the final result
of the fool's journey
or the hero's journey.
And it embodies the essence
of all the other cards,
but in a perfect
harmony within it.
And it also represents
that this is
meant to bring us
to what we would
call maybe a cosmic
consciousness
or a divine consciousness.
It's a more awakened being,
a more perfected being.
And that's what that journey
is leading us towards.
>>NOORY: Is each
card representative
for an individual,
or does he just pick
one and that's what
you have to look at?
>>BULLARD: Mm.
Well, we all--
I would say we're a
combination of different keys.
So we each have
certain ones that
will be our dominant archetype.
So for example, as
a Gemini, you might
have a relationship with
one of the cards that
is ruled by Gemini.
But also, you have
your rising sign.
You have your moon sign.
So those are all going
to have different cards
that they're associated with.
The day of the month
that you were born on,
your birthday day, that
also has a number which
associates with a card
as well, and so that
might also influence you.
So we're a combination
of these archetypes.
We're not necessarily
actively manifesting all 22
in this life.
We're probably having strengths
and weaknesses of certain ones
that are really
active in this life.
But the goal to becoming
more of a multidimensional,
more awakened being is
to come into this ability
to have relationship
and to see all 22
archetypes active within your
life and working in a balanced
and harmonious, integrated way,
versus just being a few, right?
So the more we
kind of strip away
just layers of personality,
which tend to be our masks,
and we get more into the core
essence of our true self,
then all 22 can become
active within our lives.
And that's what we
would call living
a more multidimensional life.
>>NOORY: Who
interprets these cards?
Would you do it for
somebody, or do they
have to do it themselves?
>>BULLARD: It's both.
So the individual would develop
a relationship with the cards
so if they meditate
upon them, for example,
the card is meant to
teach them directly.
>>NOORY: Are they just
picking from the deck?
>>BULLARD: They
could, or they could
work with them in sequence.
So in my season four of
"Mystery Teachings," which
is all about the Tarot and
the hero's journey and living
a multidimensional life, we
go through them in sequence
from zero to 22.
We go around the wheel
in the proper order.
And we work on
each one at a time.
And you know, I talk about
how to work with them
and how to use the visual
imagery of the Tarot card
as a meditation tool, and
to work with building up
the images within your
own mind, to bring it
into a state of being
alive within you,
alive within your life.
And you work with them
about once a week.
You take a card, and you work
with that card for a week,
and then you move
on to the next one.
Once you've gone through
all 22 like that,
you've developed a
relationship with them
all, then you could work with
just kind of randomly drawing
a card out of the
pack and see, OK, this
is my card for the day.
And then what is its
message for me today?
And then you work
with it that way.
And you can also then look
up the interpretations
in the books, for example,
and see, what else does that
give you?
But most important
is to meditate on it
and to see from the
inner planes, what
is it teaching you?
>>NOORY: It's fascinating as a
physicist for you to do this.
>>BULLARD: Yes.
That's because in my studies
in the Mystery tradition,
I saw how alive they really
are within our own lives.
And I started to study some
of the works of Carl Jung,
and he talks about
archetypes and the importance
of bringing our awareness
to those archetypes.
They show up in our
dreams all the time.
That's one of the ways that
our spirit communicates to us
or that the universe
can communicate to us.
So I found over time
that it was really
important to learn this
language of the universe
so that we can be in
cooperation with it
and communication with it.
>>NOORY: And you learned it.
>>BULLARD: I did.
Yeah.
And both through
sacred geometry,
numerology, Tarot, astrology.
You know, I've learned all of
these systems as different ways
for communicating
with the universe
and being more attuned to
or able to pay attention to,
what is this symbol, this
dream, this sort of experience
that I've just had?
What is spirit trying to teach
me about me or about my life?
Or how is it trying
to direct me?
Because I feel that we
are in participation
with this universe.
And that's a very
quantum physics
kind of approach to
life, is that this
is a participatory universe.
But we need to have the
right knowledge and awareness
to really be effective in
our participation with it.
If we just let it happen
to us, we're participating,
but we're participating
from an unconscious place.
And I'd rather be
conscious about how
I'm participating
with the universe
so that I can create the
life I really want to live.
And I've seen how
these archetypes really
do play in our lives
and how we can work
with them in a positive way.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
Thanks for being on
"Beyond Belief," Theresa.
>>BULLARD: Thank you very much.
It's been a pleasure.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
You can watch more
of what Theresa
has to say on her
television program
here on Gaia,
"Mystery Teachings."
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]